# Seth Avett & Jessica Lea Mayfield - ...Sing Elliott Smith

## Overview

72/100

When the random music selector chose this album, I was a little confused as to
how I should review it.
The songs are (I guess) not the artists' original work - they're Elliott Smith
covers.
But given the fact that I don't know any of these songs (shame on me - I should
check out some Elliott Smith!), I decided to just treat these songs as original
work.

Overall, a comforting listen.
Sweet lyrics (by Elliott Smith, I guess?) whose complications are successfully
delivered through the surrounding music and, in particular, the nicely done
mixing of a few select instruments.

## Tracks

### Between The Bars

I like the way the bass kicks in.
The voices go together well, mixed at the right levels.
Nice acoustic guitars.
I like the words in the chorus...

### Baby Britain

Good figurative storytelling.
Nice separation of singing between the verses/choruses vs the bridge.
When it hits the third (I think) verse ("the light was on but it was dim..."),
the vocals come togehter into a very sweet balance, and the surrounding music
reaches a peak.
The piano blends in very well.

### Fond Farewell

Sweet track.
I like the way one of the guitars ends at the end.
Honestly, nothing much to say here, really.

### Somebody That I Used To Know

Interesting progression of notes.
Powerful start.
The female singer's vocal plays a crucial role as the background during the
verse seems to play a crucial role - she almost sounds like strings.
Nice blend of instruments immediately after the chorus.

### Let's Get Lost

The way everything is mixed delivers well that sense of subtlety throughout the
song.

### Twilight

This album in general seems to know how to blend strings and piano into the
guitar.
Clean mixing skills.
Awesome change in the piano by the end.
Overall, this track does a great job of delivering the complicated emotion
behind the situation described by the words.

### Ballad of Big Nothing

Good track.
The bridge after the chorus demonstrates a very powerful combination of the
guitar and the piano.
Awesome guitar/piano solo right there.
Wish it was longer and blossomed further.

### Pitseleh

Mediocre track.

### Angeles

More reverb in this track!
Good vocal work by the male singer.

### Roman Candle

Rocking out in this one here!
The way the female singer's voices are layered create somewhat of a surreal
feeling.
But the song structure is quite mundane and doesn't pick up on the energy
potential and the subtlety of the vocal work.

### Memory Lane

**Best track of the album.**

Sounds like they deliberately engineered the mics into the piano so that the
details of the woods hitting each other are picked up and emphasized.
Beautiful melody and chord progression.
The strings add just the right amount of depth.
Really like the second chorus, where the piano and the strings reach a pinnacle
that soon fades away and then returns.
This track, to me, seems to demonstrate this album's biggest strength: the
nicely engineered balance between all the vocals and the instruments.

Beautiful track.
